Aim:- To provision a LAMP/MEAN Stack using Puppet Manifest.

Theory:-
Puppet is a powerful open-source configuration management tool that can be used to deploy, 
configure, manage, and maintain a server while accessing it remotely. Puppet is written in 
Ruby and helps you to deploy and manage a single server – all the way up to thousands of 
physical and virtual servers – all from a central location.
Puppet modules are collections of manifest files and data that allow Puppet to load and find classes, 
facts, functions, defined types, and tasks. With Puppet modules, you can install and update packages, 
create files and directories, and/or make any configuration changes quickly and easily. It aims to perform 
and automate almost any task, such as launching a LAMP environment, setting up virtual hosts, etc.


Developing a Manifest
To demonstrate how to write a Puppet manifests, classes, and modules, we will use Puppet to set up LAMP stack on Ubuntu
we know that we want an Ubuntu 20.04 server with the following resources:
Apache package (apache2) installed
Apache service (apache2) running
MySQL Server package (mysql-server) installed
MySQL Server service (mysql) running
PhP5 package (php5) installed
A test PHP script file (info.php)
Update apt before installing packages

Implementation and Output:-
Install LAMP with a Single Manifest
The manifest will be developed on a Puppet agent node, 
and executed via puppet apply, so an agent/master setup is not required.

Create Manifest
sudo vi /etc/puppet/manifests/lamp.pp

Apply Manifest

Now you will want to use the puppet apply command to execute the manifest. On lamp-1, run this:

sudo puppet apply --test

You will see many lines of output that show how the state of your server is changing, 
to match the resource declarations in your manifest. If there were no errors, you should be able 
to visit the public IP address (or domain name, if you set that up), and see the PHP info page that 
indicates that Apache and PHP are working. You can also verify that MySQL was installed on your server. 
Congrats! You set up a LAMP stack with Puppet

Conclusion
So in this practical we have succesfully provisioned a LAMP/MEAN Stack using Puppet Manifest.

