Version Control

In software engineering, version control (also known as revision control,
 source control, or source code management)is a class of systems responsible
for managing changes to computer programs, documents, large web sites,
or other collections of information. 
Version control is a component of software configuration management.
Version control, also known as source control, is the practice of tracking
and managing changes to software code. Version control systems are software
tools that help software teams manage changes to source code over time. 

As development environments have accelerated, version control systems 
help software teams’ work faster and smarter. They are especially useful 
for DevOps teams since they help them to reduce development time and 
increase successful deployments. Version control softwarekeeps track of 
every modification to the code in a special kind of database. 
If a mistake is made, developers can turn back the clock and compare earlier 
versions of the code to help fix the mistake while minimizing disruption to all team members.

For almost all software projects, the source code is like the 
crown jewels - a precious asset whose value must be protected. For most software teams, 
the source code is a repository of the invaluable knowledge and understanding 
about the problem domain that the developers have collected and refined 
through careful effort.Version control protects source code from both catastrophe and the 
casual degradation of human error and unintended consequences.

Benefits of the Version Control System.
The Version Control System is very helpful and beneficial in software development; 
developing software without using version control is unsafe. It provides backups 
for uncertainty. Version control systems offer a speedy interface to developers. 
It also allows software teams to preserve efficiency and agility according to 
the team scales to include more developers.

Some key benefits of having a version control system are as follows.
•	Complete change history of the file
•	Simultaneously working
•	Branching and merging
•	Traceability

Step to download and set up git. Download Git for Linux
To check if git already installed git –version
To uninstall sudo apt purge git
To install sudo apt install git

Steps to create account on GitHub
STEP1: Go to https://github.com/join.
STEP2: Type a user name, your email address, and a password.
STEP3: Sign up for GitHub, and then follow the instructions.

