Aim:- To Build the pipeline of jobs using Maven / Gradle / Ant in Jenkins, 
create a pipeline script to Test and deploy an application over the tomcat server.

Jenkins Pipeline

In Jenkins, a pipeline is a collection of events or jobs 
which are interlinked with one another in a sequence.
It is a combination of plugins that support the integration
and implementation of continuous delivery pipelines using Jenkins.

In other words, a Jenkins Pipeline is a collection of jobs 
or events that brings the software from version control 
into the hands of the end users by using automation tools. 
It is used to incorporate continuous delivery in our software 
development workflow.
A pipeline has an extensible automation server for creating 
simple or even complex delivery pipelines "as code", via DSL 
(Domain-specific language).

What is Continuous Delivery Pipeline?

In a Jenkins Pipeline, every job has some sort of dependency 
on at least one or more jobs or events.
A continuous delivery pipeline is an automated expression 
to show your process for getting software for version control. 
Thus, every change made in your software goes through a number 
of complex processes on its manner to being released. 
It also involves developing the software in a repeatable and 
reliable manner, and progression of the built software through 
multiple stages of testing and deployment.
 
JenkinsFile

Jenkins Pipeline can be defined by a text file called JenkinsFile.
You can implement pipeline as code using JenkinsFile, and this 
can be defined by using a DSL (Domain Specific Language). 
With the help of JenkinsFile, you can write the steps required 
for running a Jenkins Pipeline.

The benefits of using JenkinsFile are:

•You can make pipelines automatically for all branches and 
can execute pull requests with just one JenkinsFile.
•You can review your code on the pipeline.
•You can review your Jenkins pipeline.
•This is the singular source for your pipeline and can be 
customized by multiple users.
JenkinsFile can be defined by using either Web UI or with a 
JenkinsFile.

TO install jenkins
browser mdhe jenkins download takaych nntr select karaych 
ubuntu debian tya saglya commands copy krun paste karaycha terminal mdhe 
te zala ki browser la localhost:8080 takaych tikde ek password mangtil 
to pass sathi tikdhcha path copy karaycha aani to 
terminal mdhe ek command takaychi 
sudo cat ani to path
tikde pass yeil to tkaycha browser cha window la  ani plugin install karayche


Now we will build Maven project using Jenkins:
Step 1: Create a new maven project with name maven_job
Step 2: Now configure it.
Step 3: After configuration we will click on build now.
Step 4: Now we will create pipeline with name PipelineTomcatDeployment1.
Step 5: To configure we will click on pipeline and type following code in script.
Step 6: Click on build now and get the output
Step 7: click on pipeline syntax
Step 8: Add credentials
Step 9: After getting link from pipeline script we will post it into pipeline.
Step 10: Pipeline is created.


