Aim:- To Setup and Run Selenium Tests in Jenkins Using Maven.

What is Selenium in Devops?

As a part of the UI testing team, Selenium test developers 
need to synchronize and orchestrate their test design and 
execution as per schedule and triggers, that are defined 
in their continuous integration or continuous delivery 
tools or platforms.

Test Design needs to be more agile, effortless, and 
error-free. There is a shift towards the enhancement of 
existing or new test automation frameworks to integrate 
with continuous integration/continuous delivery pipelines seamlessly.

Moreover, organizations are leveraging Machine Learning 
and AI to address the challenges concerning the complexities 
and scale in testing environments. Enterprises are 
exploring AI research areas such as Computer Vision and 
Natural language processing to address the challenges.

What is Selenium ?

Selenium is an open source automation tool that has been 
widely used for testing web applications. It is easy to 
use, and it provides support forums, which makes it popular 
among the testing community. Selenium has four main 
components:Selenium IDE, Selenium RC, Selenium WebDriver, 
and Selenium Grid, designed and used for different purposes. 
Selenium provides cross-browser testing and parallel testing 
features, which allows the testers to execute their test 
cases in different operating systems andbrowsers, 
which ensures browser compatibility of the web application.
This Jenkins Tutorial for beginners and professionals will 
help you learn how to use Jenkins, one of the most 
popular CI/CD tools used in DevOps.

Why to use maven in selenium project?

It will manage your Selenium test project's build compilation, 
documentation and other related project tasks itself. It helps 
to create proper project structure,add and manage jar files 
in project's build path. It easily guides the project by 
gathering current principles for best practices development.

Now let’s Build Job for Selenium using maven
Step 1: Click on new item, Give name to job and select 
maven project and then press on ok.
Step 2: configure the job
Step 3: After configuration click on Build now.


