what is docker?
Docker is a virtual machine, but unlike virtual machines that create a completely 
separate operating system, Docker allows the applications to use the Linux kernel 
of the same machine on which it is installed and by taking this benefit, it can 
make the applications ready to ship to other machines that are running the same Linux
 OS with somewhat different configurations. In this way, application size 
is reduced significantly and at the time of shipping, application performance also
gets improved.

docker container:-

A container is a standard unit of software that packages up code and all its dependencies
 so the application runs quickly and reliably from one computing environment to another. 
A Docker container image is a lightweight, standalone, executable package of software that 
includes everything needed to run an application: code, runtime, system tools, system libraries 
and settings.

Container images become containers at runtime and in the case of Docker containers 
- images become containers when they run on Docker Engine. Available for both Linux 
and Windows-based applications, containerized software will always run the same, 
regardless of the infrastructure. Containers isolate software from its environment 
and ensure that it works uniformly despite differences for instance between development and staging.

Docker containers that run on Docker Engine:

•	Standard: Docker created the industry standard for containers, so they could be portable anywhere
•	Lightweight: Containers share the machine’s OS system kernel and therefore do not
 require
 an OS per application, driving higher server efficiencies and reducing server and licensing costs

•	Secure: Applications are safer in containers and Docker provides the strongest
 default isolation capabilities in the industry.


1st command in terminal 
for install docker- sudo apt install docker.io
docker --version
git clone url takaychi
cd NodeDocker
ls
for build image- sudo docker build -t dockernode .   this dot. is imp 
for check the image is install or not =
sudo docker images
for run images= 
sudo docker run -d -p 3000:3000 docker node
 and then go to browser and type localhost:3000


for deleting or stoping
sudo docker ps
container id yeil
sudo docker stop to container id takaycha ikde

